Amazon s3
========

Amazon s3 is currently the only supported way of hosting uploaded content on lbocms. It's very cheap and easy to use, but there's a few steps required to configure it for first use. This section will tell you how.

1. Sign up for s3
-----------------

Simply head on over to [amazon](http://aws.amazon.com/s3) and sign up. All you need to know to create an account is here.

2. Create a bucket
------------------

This is the folder in which all your uploads will live. All the files from all your sites currently end up in this folder. We'll be adding support for more granular structure in due course, but you won't need to do anything here other than set it up and forget about it, so one bucket will do just fine for now.

Amazon's own documentation is clear and thorough for creating a bucket. You can read it [here](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/gsg/CreatingABucket.html).

The pricing structure for s3 can be complex. It's a combination of charges for the amount of data stored and how often that data in accessed. Figuring out your likely usage depends on the size of your clients and you should take this into account when deciding how much to charge them. Despite this complexity s3 is actually very cheap, you only pay for what you use and you get a big chunk free for your first year, so unless your budget is zero dollars it shouldn't be an issue. Full details of pricing can be found [here](http://aws.amazon.com/s3/pricing/).

3. Sort your permissions
------------------------

There are two types of permissions you need to set up on your bucket - Access control and CORS.

Access control tells amazon what types of users can do what on your bucket. Everyone must be able to read the contents of your bucket in order for the files to be seen on your site. Only you should be able to put things in your bucket.

It's a good idea to create a user solely for lbocms. Do this by heading to [https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#users](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#users) once logged into aws and clicking the add user button. Add a username (e.g. "lbocms") and take a note of both the Access Key ID and Secret Access Key.

Head back to s3 in the console, then click into your bucket and click the Properties tab. Then click Permissions. Add a permission with the Grantee value of "Everyone" and only the "List" checkbox checked. Then add a permission for "Authenticated Users" and check the boxes for "List" and "Upload/Delete". Save your changes.

Next you need to add CORS configuration for your bucket. This allows the lbocms app to post files to your bucket. To set this up, simply click the "Edit CORS Configuration" link and cut and paste the following into the text field...

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <CORSConfiguration xmlns="http://s3.amazonaws.com/doc/2006-03-01/">
        <CORSRule>
            <AllowedOrigin>https://app-lbocms.rhcloud.com</AllowedOrigin>
            <AllowedMethod>HEAD</AllowedMethod>
            <AllowedMethod>PUT</AllowedMethod>
            <AllowedMethod>DELETE</AllowedMethod>
            <AllowedMethod>POST</AllowedMethod>
            <AllowedMethod>GET</AllowedMethod>
            <MaxAgeSeconds>1</MaxAgeSeconds>
            <AllowedHeader>*</AllowedHeader>
        </CORSRule>
    </CORSConfiguration>

Save your changes. You're now done with s3.

4. Add your s3 details to the lbocms app
----------------------------------------

Finally you need to tell us your details so we can upload your user's files straight into your bucket. We keep your details safe and sound and all the usual security measures apply, so you've no need to worry. To be extra safe you only use the details of the user you created in step 3 above. This is just common sense.

Login to lbocms, click the "Account" link in the top right hand corner, then click the settings link.

Add your details. These should be the name of your bucket, the region it's hosted in and the two keys you copied in step 3. If you can't remember which region you chose, look at your bucket's propeties in the s3 console and look the name up [here](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/rande.html#s3_region). It's the "Region" value we're after, e.g. "us-east-1".

Save your settings, then click the "Test" button to see if everything is okay. This button will upload a tiny (1px by 1px) gif up to your bucket to test it works. If you've followed all the steps above all should be good. If not drop us an email and we'll help you out.

Your now ready to let your users upload files and images through the content management console. Once uploaded the API will return the s3 url for the file or image so you can reference it directly from your webpage.
